<!-- encoding: UTF-8  -->

# tkRAD

Tkinter Rapid Application Development (RAD) library.


## DESCRIPTION

`tkRAD` is a **Python3.2+** library designed to enable really Rapid
Application Development (RAD) process by using predefined classes to
derive in your own subclasses, with quite useful embedded services
such as dynamic **Tkinter XML widget** building, service manager,
events manager, RC configuration manager and so on.

`tkRAD` is a deliberately **short-made API** designed for comfort,
easiness and simplicity.

`tkRAD` provides the necessary **core tools** to quickly start up an
application development or for Tkinter widget testing through
`tkRAD.easy.builder` module - see '[QUICK START](#quick-start)'
instructions below.


## LICENSE

tkRAD - tkinter Rapid Application Development library.

(c) 2013+ RaphaÃ«l SEBAN - e-mail: <motus@laposte.net>

This project is licensed under the **GNU LGPL v3** Lesser General
Public License.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.

If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/


## FEATURES

This release of `tkRAD` supports:

* **Application frame** with `tkRAD.widgets.RADApplication` class;

* **Lightweight MainWindow** with `tkRAD.widgets.RADMainWindow` class;

* More complex **Tkinter XML widget factory** embedded in
`tkRAD.xml.RADXMLMainWindow` class;

* **Automagic XML menu** / submenu cascade handling with direct access
to submenus through `get_object_by_id()` class method, event-driven
commands support, automatic menu label underlining support and
keyboard accelerator support;

* **Tkinter XML widget** building through `tkRAD.xml.RADXMLFrame`
generic widget container class;

* Tkinter XML widget building for **easy TESTING** through
`tkRAD.easy.builder` module;

* some innovative and really **useful programming tools** in
`tkRAD.core` package modules;

Since `tkRAD` has been designed for subclassing, if `tkRAD` don't meet
your needs, just create your own implementations derived from
`tkRAD.xml` generic classes such as `RADXMLBase`, `RADXMLWidgetBase`
and `RADXMLWidget`.


## DEVELOPMENT STATUS

Classifier:

    Development Status :: 5 - Production/Stable

At this time, `tkRAD` library has been reported to work as follows:

* Linux:

  * **TESTED OK** under Lubuntu, Xubuntu and Ubuntu;

  * should work quite fine under any Linux distribution;

* MacOS:

  * **NOT YET TESTED**;

* MS-Windows:

  * **TESTED OK** under MS-Windows 8 with **Python v3.3.3**;

  * `tkRAD.easy.builder2` has been **TESTED OK** for **Python v2.7+**;

Code has very few platform-dependencies and should remain STABLE in
time between each release;

Any platform users feedback is welcome.


## CHANGES

Please, refer to `CHANGES.md` file for more detail.


## DOCUMENTATION

`tkRAD` is self-documented in its own source code;

feel free to use:

    $ pydoc3 -b

in a UNIX-like console terminal set in the closest parent directory
of `tkRAD/` e.g.:

    $ cd ~/tmp      # where you have ~/tmp/tkRAD/ copied in;

    $ pydoc3 -b

and study generated autodoc in your favourite internet browser;


### Wiki wiki

Please, feel free to visit `tkRAD` internationalized (i18n) wiki
documentation for more detailed explanations, tips and tricks and
source code examples.

Wiki URL: https://github.com/tarball69/tkRAD/wiki


## INSTALLATION

`tkRAD` package library does *NOT* really need to be installed.

Just [grab a zipped copy]
(https://github.com/tarball69/tkRAD/wiki/En%3Ainstall)
of `tkRAD/` directory into your own application's source library
and start using `tkRAD` by importing classes in your own code.

Since `tkRAD` library may evolve rapidly and thus might become less
compatible with your ongoing code development, it is a rather
relevant practice to keep your favourite `tkRAD` version copied into
your own application's source library.

### Requirements

#### Mandatory requirements:

* `tkRAD` works fine with **Python v3.2 or later** installed on your
own OS platform;

* at least `tkinter` package must also be installed, which is the
common default case when you install Python;

make sure this package really exists on your system by entering in a
console terminal:

    $ python3

    >>> import tkinter    # case-sensitive /!\

if you get an error message, `tkinter` is *NOT* installed;

use your favourite package manager to solve this issue;

#### Optional requirements:

* only `tkRAD.easy.builder2` needs **Python v2.7 or later**
installed to work fine, since this module has been especially
designed for these early versions of Python;

* if you use `tkRAD.easy.builder2` with Python v2.7+, you must also
have `Tkinter` package installed, which is the common default case
when you install Python2.7+;

make sure this package really exists on your system by entering in a
console terminal:

    $ python

    >>> import Tkinter    # case-sensitive /!\

if you get an error message, `Tkinter` is *NOT* installed;

use your favourite package manager to solve this issue;


## BUG REPORT

In order to **track bugs** and fix them correctly, we'd like to hear
from you.

**If you encountered any problem** during the use of `tkRAD` lib,
please leave us a comment and tell us:

* environment:
    * which platform? (Windows, macOS, Linux)
    * which Python version? (2.7+, 3.2+)
    * tkinter installed correctly? (yes/no)

* context:
    * when did it happen?
        * while trying wiki tutorial code samples?
        * while trying `tkRAD.easy.builder` features?
        * while trying to write your own app?

* traceback (optional):
    * are you sure it is *NOT* an XML source code mistype error?
    * could you copy/paste the console error text, please?
    * could you tell us few words about what happened?

**Whatever happened**, we'd like to know about it.

You will find an open issue **"It did *NOT* work for me!"** at:

https://github.com/tarball69/tkRAD/issues/6

**Thank you for contributing** to make `tkRAD` a better place for
everyone.


## QUICK START

Please refer to the "Easy tests with tkRAD.easy.builder" page:

https://github.com/tarball69/tkRAD/wiki/en%3Aeasy_builder


## History: THE LITTLE STORY

For the little story, the very first public release of `tkRAD` was
entirely written with an ASUS 1001PX **NETBOOK**(!) computer, under
a Linux Lubuntu 13.10 distro for the need of a Video Editor: Qut.

It was in December 2013 and it is a TRUE story.

Enjoy!

